README.md, before:

<div align="center">
<h1 style="border-bottom: none; margin-bottom: 0px ">Depth Anything 3: Recovering the Visual Space from Any Views</h1>
<!-- <h2 style="border-top: none; margin-top: 3px;">Recovering the Visual Space from Any Views</h2> -->


[**Haotong Lin**](https://haotongl.github.io/)<sup>&ast;</sup> · [**Sili Chen**](https://github.com/SiliChen321)<sup>&ast;</sup> · [**Jun Hao Liew**](https://liewjunhao.github.io/)<sup>&ast;</sup> · [**Donny Y. Chen**](https://donydchen.github.io)<sup>&ast;</sup> · [**Zhenyu Li**](https://zhyever.github.io/) · [**Guang Shi**](https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=MjXxWbUAAAAJ&hl=en) · [**Jiashi Feng**](https://scholar.google.com.sg/citations?user=Q8iay0gAAAAJ&hl=en)
<br>
[**Bingyi Kang**](https://bingykang.github.io/)<sup>&ast;&dagger;</sup>

&dagger;project lead&emsp;&ast;Equal Contribution

<a href="https://arxiv.org/abs/2511.10647"><img src='https://img.shields.io/badge/arXiv-Depth Anything 3-red' alt='Paper PDF'></a>
<a href='https://depth-anything-3.github.io'><img src='https://img.shields.io/badge/Project_Page-Depth Anything 3-green' alt='Project Page'></a>
<a href='https://huggingface.co/spaces/depth-anything/Depth-Anything-3'><img src='https://img.shields.io/badge/%F0%9F%A4%97%20Hugging%20Face-Demo-blue'></a>
<!-- <a href='https://huggingface.co/datasets/depth-anything/VGB'><img src='https://img.shields.io/badge/Benchmark-VisGeo-yellow' alt='Benchmark'></a> -->
<!-- <a href='https://huggingface.co/datasets/depth-anything/data'><img src='https://img.shields.io/badge/Benchmark-xxx-yellow' alt='Data'></a> -->

</div>

This work presents **Depth Anything 3 (DA3)**, a model that predicts spatially consistent geometry from
arbitrary visual inputs, with or without known camera poses.
In pursuit of minimal modeling, DA3 yields two key insights:
- 💎 A **single plain transformer** (e.g., vanilla DINO encoder) is sufficient as a backbone without architectural specialization,
- ✨ A singular **depth-ray representation** obviates the need for complex multi-task learning.

🏆 DA3 significantly outperforms
[DA2](https://github.com/DepthAnything/Depth-Anything-V2) for monocular depth estimation,
and [VGGT](https://github.com/facebookresearch/vggt) for multi-view depth estimation and pose estimation.
All models are trained exclusively on **public academic datasets**.

<!-- <p align="center">
  <img src="assets/images/da3_teaser.png" alt="Depth Anything 3" width="100%">
</p> -->
<p align="center">
  <img src="assets/images/demo320-2.gif" alt="Depth Anything 3 - Left" width="70%">
</p>
<p align="center">
  <img src="assets/images/da3_radar.png" alt="Depth Anything 3" width="100%">
</p>


## 📰 News
- **25-11-2025:** Add [Awesome DA3 Projects](#-awesome-da3-projects), a community-driven section featuring DA3-based applications.
- **14-11-2025:** Paper, project page, code and models are all released.

## ✨ Highlights

### 🏆 Model Zoo
We release three series of models, each tailored for specific use cases in visual geometry.

- 🌟 **DA3 Main Series** (`DA3-Giant`, `DA3-Large`, `DA3-Base`, `DA3-Small`) These are our flagship foundation models, trained with a unified depth-ray representation. By varying the input configuration, a single model can perform a wide range of tasks:
  + 🌊 **Monocular Depth Estimation**: Predicts a depth map from a single RGB image.
  + 🌊 **Multi-View Depth Estimation**: Generates consistent depth maps from multiple images for high-quality fusion.
  + 🎯 **Pose-Conditioned Depth Estimation**: Achieves superior depth consistency when camera poses are provided as input.
  + 📷 **Camera Pose Estimation**:  Estimates camera extrinsics and intrinsics from one or more images.
  + 🟡 **3D Gaussian Estimation**: Directly predicts 3D Gaussians, enabling high-fidelity novel view synthesis.

- 📐 **DA3 Metric Series** (`DA3Metric-Large`) A specialized model fine-tuned for metric depth estimation in monocular settings, ideal for applications requiring real-world scale.

- 🔍 **DA3 Monocular Series** (`DA3Mono-Large`). A dedicated model for high-quality relative monocular depth estimation. Unlike disparity-based models (e.g.,  [Depth Anything 2](https://github.com/DepthAnything/Depth-Anything-V2)), it directly predicts depth, resulting in superior geometric accuracy.

🔗 Leveraging these available models, we developed a **nested series** (`DA3Nested-Giant-Large`). This series combines a any-view giant model with a metric model to reconstruct visual geometry at a real-world metric scale.

### 🛠️ Codebase Features
Our repository is designed to be a powerful and user-friendly toolkit for both practical application and future research.
- 🎨 **Interactive Web UI & Gallery**: Visualize model outputs and compare results with an easy-to-use Gradio-based web interface.
- ⚡ **Flexible Command-Line Interface (CLI)**: Powerful and scriptable CLI for batch processing and integration into custom workflows.
- 💾 **Multiple Export Formats**: Save your results in various formats, including `glb`, `npz`, depth images, `ply`, 3DGS videos, etc, to seamlessly connect with other tools.
- 🔧 **Extensible and Modular Design**: The codebase is structured to facilitate future research and the integration of new models or functionalities.


<!-- ### 🎯 Visual Geometry Benchmark
We introduce a new benchmark to rigorously evaluate geometry prediction models on three key tasks: pose estimation, 3D reconstruction, and visual rendering (novel view synthesis) quality.

- 🔄 **Broad Model Compatibility**: Our benchmark is designed to be versatile, supporting the evaluation of various models, including both monocular and multi-view depth estimation approaches.
- 🔬 **Robust Evaluation Pipeline**: We provide a standardized pipeline featuring RANSAC-based pose alignment, TSDF fusion for dense reconstruction, and a principled view selection strategy for novel view synthesis.
- 📊 **Standardized Metrics**: Performance is measured using established metrics: AUC for pose accuracy, F1-score and Chamfer Distance for reconstruction, and PSNR/SSIM/LPIPS for rendering quality.
- 🌍 **Diverse and Challenging Datasets**: The benchmark spans a wide range of scenes from datasets like HiRoom, ETH3D, DTU, 7Scenes, ScanNet++, DL3DV, Tanks and Temples, and MegaDepth. -->


## 🚀 Quick Start

### 📦 Installation

```bash
pip install torch\>=2 torchvision
pip install -e . # Basic
pip install -e ".[gs]" # Gaussians Estimation and Rendering
pip install -e ".[app]" # Gradio, python>=3.10
pip install -e ".[all]" # ALL
```

For detailed model information, please refer to the [Model Cards](#-model-cards) section below.

### 💻 Basic Usage

```python
import glob, os, torch
from depth_anything_3.api import DepthAnything3
device = torch.device("cuda")
model = DepthAnything3.from_pretrained("depth-anything/DA3NESTED-GIANT-LARGE")
model = model.to(device=device)
example_path = "assets/examples/SOH"
images = sorted(glob.glob(os.path.join(example_path, "*.png")))
prediction = model.inference(
    images,
)
# prediction.processed_images : [N, H, W, 3] uint8   array
print(prediction.processed_images.shape)
# prediction.depth            : [N, H, W]    float32 array
print(prediction.depth.shape)  
# prediction.conf             : [N, H, W]    float32 array
print(prediction.conf.shape)  
# prediction.extrinsics       : [N, 3, 4]    float32 array # opencv w2c or colmap format
print(prediction.extrinsics.shape)
# prediction.intrinsics       : [N, 3, 3]    float32 array
print(prediction.intrinsics.shape)
```

```bash

export MODEL_DIR=depth-anything/DA3NESTED-GIANT-LARGE
# This can be a Hugging Face repository or a local directory
# If you encounter network issues, consider using the following mirror: export HF_ENDPOINT=https://hf-mirror.com
# Alternatively, you can download the model directly from Hugging Face
export GALLERY_DIR=workspace/gallery
mkdir -p $GALLERY_DIR

# CLI auto mode with backend reuse
da3 backend --model-dir ${MODEL_DIR} --gallery-dir ${GALLERY_DIR} # Cache model to gpu
da3 auto assets/examples/SOH \
    --export-format glb \
    --export-dir ${GALLERY_DIR}/TEST_BACKEND/SOH \
    --use-backend

# CLI video processing with feature visualization
da3 video assets/examples/robot_unitree.mp4 \
    --fps 15 \
    --use-backend \
    --export-dir ${GALLERY_DIR}/TEST_BACKEND/robo \
    --export-format glb-feat_vis \
    --feat-vis-fps 15 \
    --process-res-method lower_bound_resize \
    --export-feat "11,21,31"

# CLI auto mode without backend reuse
da3 auto assets/examples/SOH \
    --export-format glb \
    --export-dir ${GALLERY_DIR}/TEST_CLI/SOH \
    --model-dir ${MODEL_DIR}

```

The model architecture is defined in [`DepthAnything3Net`](src/depth_anything_3/model/da3.py), and specified with a Yaml config file located at [`src/depth_anything_3/configs`](src/depth_anything_3/configs). The input and output processing are handled by [`DepthAnything3`](src/depth_anything_3/api.py). To customize the model architecture, simply create a new config file (*e.g.*, `path/to/new/config`) as:

```yaml
__object__:
  path: depth_anything_3.model.da3
  name: DepthAnything3Net
  args: as_params

net:
  __object__:
    path: depth_anything_3.model.dinov2.dinov2
    name: DinoV2
    args: as_params

  name: vitb
  out_layers: [5, 7, 9, 11]
  alt_start: 4
  qknorm_start: 4
  rope_start: 4
  cat_token: True

head:
  __object__:
    path: depth_anything_3.model.dualdpt
    name: DualDPT
    args: as_params

  dim_in: &head_dim_in 1536
  output_dim: 2
  features: &head_features 128
  out_channels: &head_out_channels [96, 192, 384, 768]
```

Then, the model can be created with the following code snippet.
```python
from depth_anything_3.cfg import create_object, load_config

Model = create_object(load_config("path/to/new/config"))
```



## 📚 Useful Documentation

- 🖥️ [Command Line Interface](docs/CLI.md)
- 📑 [Python API](docs/API.md)
<!-- - 🏁 [Visual Geometry Benchmark](docs/BENCHMARK.md) -->

## 🗂️ Model Cards

Generally, you should observe that DA3-LARGE achieves comparable results to VGGT.

| 🗃️ Model Name                  | 📏 Params | 📊 Rel. Depth | 📷 Pose Est. | 🧭 Pose Cond. | 🎨 GS | 📐 Met. Depth | ☁️ Sky Seg | 📄 License     |
|-------------------------------|-----------|---------------|--------------|---------------|-------|---------------|-----------|----------------|
| **Nested** | | | | | | | | |
| [DA3NESTED-GIANT-LARGE](https://huggingface.co/depth-anything/DA3NESTED-GIANT-LARGE)  | 1.40B     | ✅             | ✅            | ✅             | ✅     | ✅             | ✅         | CC BY-NC 4.0   |
| **Any-view Model** | | | | | | | | |
| [DA3-GIANT](https://huggingface.co/depth-anything/DA3-GIANT)                     | 1.15B     | ✅             | ✅            | ✅             | ✅     |               |           | CC BY-NC 4.0   |
| [DA3-LARGE](https://huggingface.co/depth-anything/DA3-LARGE)                     | 0.35B     | ✅             | ✅            | ✅             |       |               |           | CC BY-NC 4.0     |
| [DA3-BASE](https://huggingface.co/depth-anything/DA3-BASE)                     | 0.12B     | ✅             | ✅            | ✅             |       |               |           | Apache 2.0     |
| [DA3-SMALL](https://huggingface.co/depth-anything/DA3-SMALL)                     | 0.08B     | ✅             | ✅            | ✅             |       |               |           | Apache 2.0     |
|                               |           |               |              |               |               |       |           |                |
| **Monocular Metric Depth** | | | | | | | | |
| [DA3METRIC-LARGE](https://huggingface.co/depth-anything/DA3METRIC-LARGE)              | 0.35B     | ✅             |              |               |       | ✅             | ✅         | Apache 2.0     |
|                               |           |               |              |               |               |       |           |                |
| **Monocular Depth** | | | | | | | | |
| [DA3MONO-LARGE](https://huggingface.co/depth-anything/DA3MONO-LARGE)                | 0.35B     | ✅             |              |               |               |       | ✅         | Apache 2.0     |


## ❓ FAQ

- **Older GPUs without XFormers support**: See [Issue #11](https://github.com/ByteDance-Seed/Depth-Anything-3/issues/11). Thanks to [@S-Mahoney](https://github.com/S-Mahoney) for the solution!


## 🏢 Awesome DA3 Projects

A community-curated list of Depth Anything 3 integrations across 3D tools, creative pipelines, robotics, and web/VR viewers, including but not limited to these. You are welcome to submit your DA3-based project via PR, and we will review and feature it if applicable.

- [DA3-blender](https://github.com/xy-gao/DA3-blender): Blender addon for DA3-based 3D reconstruction from a set of images. 

- [ComfyUI-DepthAnythingV3](https://github.com/PozzettiAndrea/ComfyUI-DepthAnythingV3): ComfyUI nodes for Depth Anything 3, supporting single/multi-view and video-consistent depth with optional point‑cloud export.

- [DA3-ROS2-Wrapper](https://github.com/GerdsenAI/GerdsenAI-Depth-Anything-3-ROS2-Wrapper): Real-time DA3 depth in ROS2 with multi-camera support. 

- [VideoDepthViewer3D](https://github.com/amariichi/VideoDepthViewer3D): Streaming videos with DA3 metric depth to a Three.js/WebXR 3D viewer for VR/stereo playback.


## 📝 Citations
If you find Depth Anything 3 useful in your research or projects, please cite our work:

```
@article{depthanything3,
  title={Depth Anything 3: Recovering the visual space from any views},
  author={Haotong Lin and Sili Chen and Jun Hao Liew and Donny Y. Chen and Zhenyu Li and Guang Shi and Jiashi Feng and Bingyi Kang},
  journal={arXiv preprint arXiv:2511.10647},
  year={2025}
}
```

Commit message:

Modify README for installation and model details
Updated installation instructions and added details about the Nested series model.

README.md, after:

<div align="center">
<h1 style="border-bottom: none; margin-bottom: 0px ">Depth Anything 3: Recovering the Visual Space from Any Views</h1>
<!-- <h2 style="border-top: none; margin-top: 3px;">Recovering the Visual Space from Any Views</h2> -->


[**Haotong Lin**](https://haotongl.github.io/)<sup>&ast;</sup> · [**Sili Chen**](https://github.com/SiliChen321)<sup>&ast;</sup> · [**Jun Hao Liew**](https://liewjunhao.github.io/)<sup>&ast;</sup> · [**Donny Y. Chen**](https://donydchen.github.io)<sup>&ast;</sup> · [**Zhenyu Li**](https://zhyever.github.io/) · [**Guang Shi**](https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=MjXxWbUAAAAJ&hl=en) · [**Jiashi Feng**](https://scholar.google.com.sg/citations?user=Q8iay0gAAAAJ&hl=en)
<br>
[**Bingyi Kang**](https://bingykang.github.io/)<sup>&ast;&dagger;</sup>

&dagger;project lead&emsp;&ast;Equal Contribution

<a href="https://arxiv.org/abs/2511.10647"><img src='https://img.shields.io/badge/arXiv-Depth Anything 3-red' alt='Paper PDF'></a>
<a href='https://depth-anything-3.github.io'><img src='https://img.shields.io/badge/Project_Page-Depth Anything 3-green' alt='Project Page'></a>
<a href='https://huggingface.co/spaces/depth-anything/Depth-Anything-3'><img src='https://img.shields.io/badge/%F0%9F%A4%97%20Hugging%20Face-Demo-blue'></a>
<!-- <a href='https://huggingface.co/datasets/depth-anything/VGB'><img src='https://img.shields.io/badge/Benchmark-VisGeo-yellow' alt='Benchmark'></a> -->
<!-- <a href='https://huggingface.co/datasets/depth-anything/data'><img src='https://img.shields.io/badge/Benchmark-xxx-yellow' alt='Data'></a> -->

</div>

This work presents **Depth Anything 3 (DA3)**, a model that predicts spatially consistent geometry from
arbitrary visual inputs, with or without known camera poses.
In pursuit of minimal modeling, DA3 yields two key insights:
- 💎 A **single plain transformer** (e.g., vanilla DINO encoder) is sufficient as a backbone without architectural specialization,
- ✨ A singular **depth-ray representation** obviates the need for complex multi-task learning.

🏆 DA3 significantly outperforms
[DA2](https://github.com/DepthAnything/Depth-Anything-V2) for monocular depth estimation,
and [VGGT](https://github.com/facebookresearch/vggt) for multi-view depth estimation and pose estimation.
All models are trained exclusively on **public academic datasets**.

<!-- <p align="center">
  <img src="assets/images/da3_teaser.png" alt="Depth Anything 3" width="100%">
</p> -->
<p align="center">
  <img src="assets/images/demo320-2.gif" alt="Depth Anything 3 - Left" width="70%">
</p>
<p align="center">
  <img src="assets/images/da3_radar.png" alt="Depth Anything 3" width="100%">
</p>


## 📰 News
- **25-11-2025:** Add [Awesome DA3 Projects](#-awesome-da3-projects), a community-driven section featuring DA3-based applications.
- **14-11-2025:** Paper, project page, code and models are all released.

## ✨ Highlights

### 🏆 Model Zoo
We release three series of models, each tailored for specific use cases in visual geometry.

- 🌟 **DA3 Main Series** (`DA3-Giant`, `DA3-Large`, `DA3-Base`, `DA3-Small`) These are our flagship foundation models, trained with a unified depth-ray representation. By varying the input configuration, a single model can perform a wide range of tasks:
  + 🌊 **Monocular Depth Estimation**: Predicts a depth map from a single RGB image.
  + 🌊 **Multi-View Depth Estimation**: Generates consistent depth maps from multiple images for high-quality fusion.
  + 🎯 **Pose-Conditioned Depth Estimation**: Achieves superior depth consistency when camera poses are provided as input.
  + 📷 **Camera Pose Estimation**:  Estimates camera extrinsics and intrinsics from one or more images.
  + 🟡 **3D Gaussian Estimation**: Directly predicts 3D Gaussians, enabling high-fidelity novel view synthesis.

- 📐 **DA3 Metric Series** (`DA3Metric-Large`) A specialized model fine-tuned for metric depth estimation in monocular settings, ideal for applications requiring real-world scale.

- 🔍 **DA3 Monocular Series** (`DA3Mono-Large`). A dedicated model for high-quality relative monocular depth estimation. Unlike disparity-based models (e.g.,  [Depth Anything 2](https://github.com/DepthAnything/Depth-Anything-V2)), it directly predicts depth, resulting in superior geometric accuracy.

🔗 Leveraging these available models, we developed a **nested series** (`DA3Nested-Giant-Large`). This series combines a any-view giant model with a metric model to reconstruct visual geometry at a real-world metric scale.

### 🛠️ Codebase Features
Our repository is designed to be a powerful and user-friendly toolkit for both practical application and future research.
- 🎨 **Interactive Web UI & Gallery**: Visualize model outputs and compare results with an easy-to-use Gradio-based web interface.
- ⚡ **Flexible Command-Line Interface (CLI)**: Powerful and scriptable CLI for batch processing and integration into custom workflows.
- 💾 **Multiple Export Formats**: Save your results in various formats, including `glb`, `npz`, depth images, `ply`, 3DGS videos, etc, to seamlessly connect with other tools.
- 🔧 **Extensible and Modular Design**: The codebase is structured to facilitate future research and the integration of new models or functionalities.


<!-- ### 🎯 Visual Geometry Benchmark
We introduce a new benchmark to rigorously evaluate geometry prediction models on three key tasks: pose estimation, 3D reconstruction, and visual rendering (novel view synthesis) quality.

- 🔄 **Broad Model Compatibility**: Our benchmark is designed to be versatile, supporting the evaluation of various models, including both monocular and multi-view depth estimation approaches.
- 🔬 **Robust Evaluation Pipeline**: We provide a standardized pipeline featuring RANSAC-based pose alignment, TSDF fusion for dense reconstruction, and a principled view selection strategy for novel view synthesis.
- 📊 **Standardized Metrics**: Performance is measured using established metrics: AUC for pose accuracy, F1-score and Chamfer Distance for reconstruction, and PSNR/SSIM/LPIPS for rendering quality.
- 🌍 **Diverse and Challenging Datasets**: The benchmark spans a wide range of scenes from datasets like HiRoom, ETH3D, DTU, 7Scenes, ScanNet++, DL3DV, Tanks and Temples, and MegaDepth. -->


## 🚀 Quick Start

### 📦 Installation

```bash
pip install xformers torch\>=2 torchvision
pip install -e . # Basic
pip install --no-build-isolation git+https://github.com/nerfstudio-project/gsplat.git@0b4dddf04cb687367602c01196913cde6a743d70 # for gaussian head
pip install -e ".[app]" # Gradio, python>=3.10
pip install -e ".[all]" # ALL
```

For detailed model information, please refer to the [Model Cards](#-model-cards) section below.

### 💻 Basic Usage

```python
import glob, os, torch
from depth_anything_3.api import DepthAnything3
device = torch.device("cuda")
model = DepthAnything3.from_pretrained("depth-anything/DA3NESTED-GIANT-LARGE")
model = model.to(device=device)
example_path = "assets/examples/SOH"
images = sorted(glob.glob(os.path.join(example_path, "*.png")))
prediction = model.inference(
    images,
)
# prediction.processed_images : [N, H, W, 3] uint8   array
print(prediction.processed_images.shape)
# prediction.depth            : [N, H, W]    float32 array
print(prediction.depth.shape)  
# prediction.conf             : [N, H, W]    float32 array
print(prediction.conf.shape)  
# prediction.extrinsics       : [N, 3, 4]    float32 array # opencv w2c or colmap format
print(prediction.extrinsics.shape)
# prediction.intrinsics       : [N, 3, 3]    float32 array
print(prediction.intrinsics.shape)
```

```bash

export MODEL_DIR=depth-anything/DA3NESTED-GIANT-LARGE
# This can be a Hugging Face repository or a local directory
# If you encounter network issues, consider using the following mirror: export HF_ENDPOINT=https://hf-mirror.com
# Alternatively, you can download the model directly from Hugging Face
export GALLERY_DIR=workspace/gallery
mkdir -p $GALLERY_DIR

# CLI auto mode with backend reuse
da3 backend --model-dir ${MODEL_DIR} --gallery-dir ${GALLERY_DIR} # Cache model to gpu
da3 auto assets/examples/SOH \
    --export-format glb \
    --export-dir ${GALLERY_DIR}/TEST_BACKEND/SOH \
    --use-backend

# CLI video processing with feature visualization
da3 video assets/examples/robot_unitree.mp4 \
    --fps 15 \
    --use-backend \
    --export-dir ${GALLERY_DIR}/TEST_BACKEND/robo \
    --export-format glb-feat_vis \
    --feat-vis-fps 15 \
    --process-res-method lower_bound_resize \
    --export-feat "11,21,31"

# CLI auto mode without backend reuse
da3 auto assets/examples/SOH \
    --export-format glb \
    --export-dir ${GALLERY_DIR}/TEST_CLI/SOH \
    --model-dir ${MODEL_DIR}

```

The model architecture is defined in [`DepthAnything3Net`](src/depth_anything_3/model/da3.py), and specified with a Yaml config file located at [`src/depth_anything_3/configs`](src/depth_anything_3/configs). The input and output processing are handled by [`DepthAnything3`](src/depth_anything_3/api.py). To customize the model architecture, simply create a new config file (*e.g.*, `path/to/new/config`) as:

```yaml
__object__:
  path: depth_anything_3.model.da3
  name: DepthAnything3Net
  args: as_params

net:
  __object__:
    path: depth_anything_3.model.dinov2.dinov2
    name: DinoV2
    args: as_params

  name: vitb
  out_layers: [5, 7, 9, 11]
  alt_start: 4
  qknorm_start: 4
  rope_start: 4
  cat_token: True

head:
  __object__:
    path: depth_anything_3.model.dualdpt
    name: DualDPT
    args: as_params

  dim_in: &head_dim_in 1536
  output_dim: 2
  features: &head_features 128
  out_channels: &head_out_channels [96, 192, 384, 768]
```

Then, the model can be created with the following code snippet.
```python
from depth_anything_3.cfg import create_object, load_config

Model = create_object(load_config("path/to/new/config"))
```



## 📚 Useful Documentation

- 🖥️ [Command Line Interface](docs/CLI.md)
- 📑 [Python API](docs/API.md)
<!-- - 🏁 [Visual Geometry Benchmark](docs/BENCHMARK.md) -->

## 🗂️ Model Cards

Generally, you should observe that DA3-LARGE achieves comparable results to VGGT.

The Nested series uses an Any-view model to estimate pose and depth, and a monocular metric depth estimator for scaling. 

| 🗃️ Model Name                  | 📏 Params | 📊 Rel. Depth | 📷 Pose Est. | 🧭 Pose Cond. | 🎨 GS | 📐 Met. Depth | ☁️ Sky Seg | 📄 License     |
|-------------------------------|-----------|---------------|--------------|---------------|-------|---------------|-----------|----------------|
| **Nested** | | | | | | | | |
| [DA3NESTED-GIANT-LARGE](https://huggingface.co/depth-anything/DA3NESTED-GIANT-LARGE)  | 1.40B     | ✅             | ✅            | ✅             | ✅     | ✅             | ✅         | CC BY-NC 4.0   |
| **Any-view Model** | | | | | | | | |
| [DA3-GIANT](https://huggingface.co/depth-anything/DA3-GIANT)                     | 1.15B     | ✅             | ✅            | ✅             | ✅     |               |           | CC BY-NC 4.0   |
| [DA3-LARGE](https://huggingface.co/depth-anything/DA3-LARGE)                     | 0.35B     | ✅             | ✅            | ✅             |       |               |           | CC BY-NC 4.0     |
| [DA3-BASE](https://huggingface.co/depth-anything/DA3-BASE)                     | 0.12B     | ✅             | ✅            | ✅             |       |               |           | Apache 2.0     |
| [DA3-SMALL](https://huggingface.co/depth-anything/DA3-SMALL)                     | 0.08B     | ✅             | ✅            | ✅             |       |               |           | Apache 2.0     |
|                               |           |               |              |               |               |       |           |                |
| **Monocular Metric Depth** | | | | | | | | |
| [DA3METRIC-LARGE](https://huggingface.co/depth-anything/DA3METRIC-LARGE)              | 0.35B     | ✅             |              |               |       | ✅             | ✅         | Apache 2.0     |
|                               |           |               |              |               |               |       |           |                |
| **Monocular Depth** | | | | | | | | |
| [DA3MONO-LARGE](https://huggingface.co/depth-anything/DA3MONO-LARGE)                | 0.35B     | ✅             |              |               |               |       | ✅         | Apache 2.0     |


## ❓ FAQ

- **Monocular Metric Depth**: To obtain metric depth in meters from `DA3METRIC-LARGE`, use `metric_depth = focal * net_output / 300.`, where `focal` is the focal length in pixels (typically the average of fx and fy from the camera intrinsic matrix K). Note that the output from `DA3NESTED-GIANT-LARGE` is already in meters.


- **Older GPUs without XFormers support**: See [Issue #11](https://github.com/ByteDance-Seed/Depth-Anything-3/issues/11). Thanks to [@S-Mahoney](https://github.com/S-Mahoney) for the solution!


## 🏢 Awesome DA3 Projects

A community-curated list of Depth Anything 3 integrations across 3D tools, creative pipelines, robotics, and web/VR viewers, including but not limited to these. You are welcome to submit your DA3-based project via PR, and we will review and feature it if applicable.

- [DA3-blender](https://github.com/xy-gao/DA3-blender): Blender addon for DA3-based 3D reconstruction from a set of images. 

- [ComfyUI-DepthAnythingV3](https://github.com/PozzettiAndrea/ComfyUI-DepthAnythingV3): ComfyUI nodes for Depth Anything 3, supporting single/multi-view and video-consistent depth with optional point‑cloud export.

- [DA3-ROS2-Wrapper](https://github.com/GerdsenAI/GerdsenAI-Depth-Anything-3-ROS2-Wrapper): Real-time DA3 depth in ROS2 with multi-camera support. 

- [VideoDepthViewer3D](https://github.com/amariichi/VideoDepthViewer3D): Streaming videos with DA3 metric depth to a Three.js/WebXR 3D viewer for VR/stereo playback.


## 📝 Citations
If you find Depth Anything 3 useful in your research or projects, please cite our work:

```
@article{depthanything3,
  title={Depth Anything 3: Recovering the visual space from any views},
  author={Haotong Lin and Sili Chen and Jun Hao Liew and Donny Y. Chen and Zhenyu Li and Guang Shi and Jiashi Feng and Bingyi Kang},
  journal={arXiv preprint arXiv:2511.10647},
  year={2025}
}
```
